All right, welcome back.
Now in this lesson, I want to show you yet some more object oriented techniques that we can use here
to further simplify or clean up our code.
So if we jump over into, let's say, the it doesn't really matter.
The programmer class and we kind of peruse the code here.
One thing that stands out to me is that we still have quite a bit of code duplication.
Now, I'm not necessarily talking about duplicated code within the class.
I'm talking about duplicated code across the programmer, manager and analyst and CEO classes.
If you recall, in fact, we really pretty much just copied and pasted the guts of one of the one of
these classes to make the other two or three right that we did a lot of copy and pasting.
And any time you're doing copying and pasting, that's a strong indication that you might need to rethink
your coding there because you're going to have a lot of duplication by by virtue of the fact that you're
copying and pasting.
So the question becomes, what can we do about this?
So I think the first thing we'd want to do is to do a little analysis as to where is the duplication
of code.
So obviously, all of these employee classes, employee derived classes have a first name, last name
and a date of birth.
So that's all duplicate code.
Right?
Let's see.
And then in the constructor, the way that all of these classes uses this matter and has this find bit
here, that's all duplicate.
Right?
At least all of this is duplicate code right here.
So the question is, is there something we can do to reduce this duplication?
And the answer obviously is yes, there is.
And we've already actually seen and utilized a few of these techniques that I'm about to show you.
So this will at least partially be a review of something that I introduced way back in the original
object oriented module, the first one, but now will be a little more structured about it, I suppose.
All right.
So what we can do is we can implement a super class for all of these classes and then that super class,
we can basically pull up a lot of the duplicate code and declarations.
Now there are two ways that we could do this we could introduce a new class or.
And I think this is what I'm going to prefer for now.
We could take over this interface and basically just turn it into a class.
OK.
So I introduced you to this interface because it's an important technique for you to know about.
But it is not the only one, and we don't have to keep this interface.
So a lot of the benefits that we're getting from using this interface, we also can get by simply introducing
a super class.
So what we can do is come over here to this employee class or into this employee file, and I'm going
to actually change its key word now from interface just to class.
OK.
Now, as soon as I do that, I'm told that there are lots of problems and of course, there are.
Now one thing I'm going to have to do is that if I'm going to make this now a class, then I cannot
have this method declaration with a semicolon like this.
Methods and classes have to actually implement something.
So for now, I'm just going to create a dummy implementation of this method that will return a zero
like so.
And I'm also going to go back to declaring this as public now.
All right.
Now I've got four related problems, and I bet those four related problems are related to the programmer,
the manager, the CEO and the analyst.
So let's just jump through them and see.
Yeah.
So we've got a red squiggly line here because I'm using the implements key word, which is only used
when you're referring to an interface and this employee is no longer an interface, it is now a class.
Now, if I want my programmer to be a type of employee class, I need to use a different keyword, which
is extends OK, so I can just replace that with extend.
So let me just remind you, in case you have forgotten how we were using extends and class hierarchies
in the original object oriented module.
So what we're doing is we're still saying that a programmer is a type of employee.
But now, instead of it just being like an empty skeleton shell that declares certain methods that all
employees should have, we are actually creating a real.
Class, OK.
A real class, and then that's why the get salary method that we have on the employee now needs to actually
do something now.
In our case, right now, it can just return to zero.
OK, so it goes from being like an empty skeleton of something to an actual class, right?
Going back over here to the programmer, though.
So everything else looks OK for now.
So then we'll just do the same thing for the manager will change.
This implements to extends and we'll go to the CEO and do the same thing here extends.
And same thing for the analyst.
Got to the top extents.
There we go.
And now, no more errors.
All right.
So that's step one.
Now, the other thing that we can do is we can refactor these four classes and pull up these three fields
here.
Last name, first name and date of birth and by pull up.
What I mean is, if you think of this, what we're really doing now with this extends business is we're
creating a class hierarchy and at the top of that hierarchy is the employee class.
And then below it are these for what are now called subclasses, right?
The analyst's CEO, manager and programmer class.
OK.
And so what we want to do now is we want to pull up these common fields up into the super class, OK,
which will be common to all of these four subclasses.
Now the way we can do that is to put our cursor on a variable, such as last name and right click go
to refactor and then choose pull members up.
All right, now here we are presented with a list of all of the so-called members of this class and
by members, it just means the methods and the fields.
OK, so I can select last name and first name and date of birth, for starters.
And let's just go with that for right now, and we may pull some more things up in in a moment.
But let's see what this looks like.
So let's refactor by clicking this refactor button here.
And look at that, those three fields just disappeared.
Where did they go?
So if we jump over to the employee class, look at that.
There they are.
And look at what happened.
The IED not only moved those fields from the analyst class into the employee class, but it also changed
their visibility from private to protected, which it needs.
They need to be protected now if they are still to be accessed from within the subclasses.
OK, so they had to move from being private to protected.
The I.D. knew and understood that and did that for us automatically.
OK, so then I'll go back over here to the analyst class and nothing is broken.
It just moved those those three fields up.
We're still referring to those fields within the code.
Like here, this last name, this that last name now is on the employee class.
And in fact, if I command, click on this to jump to it.
It takes me to the employee class where it lives now.
OK, so recall that properties and methods of a super class such as employee are inherited or can be
inherited as long as they are visible, as long as they are at least protected or public.
They can be inherited by subclasses and the subclasses are the child classes basically so in this case,
analysts, CEO, manager and programmer.
OK.
All right.
So that's all looking good.
So now let's just go look at the other classes here now.
I don't need to pull up last name, first name and date of birth here.
It's already on the employee.
So now these three lines here are redundant, so I'm going to simply delete them and look at that.
When I do that, I don't break anything and I know I don't break anything because I'm looking over here
in the gutter and there's no red marks anywhere.
OK?
And I will do the same thing for manager.
I will select these three and just command, delete and programmer.
Select those three again.
Command, delete.
All right.
So got rid of a little bit of duplication there, but I think there's more that we can get rid of.
So let's see here.
One that I think we're going to have to tackle is what we're doing down here in the constructor.
Right.
So basically, this first half of the constructor is taking in a string representation of an employee
type.
Let's see.
And then we're creating a a matcher from the people pattern passing in that text that we received,
getting the matter, checking to see if the match or matches the text.
Right?
In other words, does it apply?
Does the Red X match the pattern?
And if so, that means we can proceed to extract the last name, first name and date of birth out.
So I think what we can do here is we can pull.
All of this up into a constructor on the employee.
Now, I don't believe we can do that in an automated fashion because we're not pulling up the entire
constructor.
We're going to just pull up these five or so lines.
And so what I'm inclined to do here is just a copy.
And then I'm going to jump up into the employee class and I'm going to simply generate a constructor
right here.
So I'm going to do a command in constructor.
I'm not going to select any of these defaults, so I'm going to select none.
Now I'm going to re introduce this constructor is taking a string, and I keep forgetting what did we
call the input for the constructor because this will be the same.
So we called it, Uh, let's see, where is that person?
Text?
OK, so I'll jump back over here and I will still call it person text like so then I will shift enter.
And now I'm just going to paste.
Now there's going to be some brokenness because we're not done bringing everything over yet.
OK.
So we'll just do a little piece at a time here, and it looks like I missed the closing for the f block
here.
So I'm going to close off this f block like so all right.
So now we've got some errors, so we need to bring over this people pattern.
So let's jump back over here to the programmer.
So let's see.
We've got this people pattern, which refers to the people rejects.
So I think I want to copy both of these.
All right.
So now I'm comfortable to go ahead and pull these two fields up.
And so again, I'm going to simply right click refactor pull members up and I need to make a note now.
These are the people, -- and the people pattern.
All right.
So people ready access already selected and people pattern.
All right, so I'm going to click refactor.
And now those have disappeared, and if I jump in to the employee class, there they are at the top,
they're in the wrong order, though, so the people rejects needs to come before the people patterns.
So I will simply put my cursor on line eight and then do an option shift down arrow to move that below.
Do you see what happened there now?
Because the people rig X has to be defined before I can use it?
All right.
And so now that red error went away, and now I also need the date time for matter here.
So I'm going to jump back over to the programmer class, and I think I'm just going to pull that up
to someone.
All right.
So I'm going to right click on.
I'm going to right click on the formatter, refactor pull members up, and I'm going to select that
formatter, which is already checked and click Refactor.
All right.
So now that just pulled that guy up.
And I will jump over to the employee class and confirm.
And there it is, and now those errors went away.
Very good.
OK, so now let's go back over to the programmer class and now I've got an error here and let's see
what this is saying.
There is no default constructor available in com neutrino service employees, dot employee.
All right.
So what we're going to want to do here is first off, all of this code here is now already on the employee
class.
So we want this code to be called on the employee class, and there's a nice way that we can do this.
So when we're in a constructor and we want to allow the constructor of a subclass to be able to call
a constructor of a super class, what we can actually do is to actually call super.
Now this is going to call the constructor that we have already been creating on the employee class.
And if you recall, I'll jump over here real quick.
This constructor requires a string, right?
And so we'll need to pass that in now.
We have that right here.
So all we need to do is just pass that in person.
Text semicolon.
All right.
So now that's allowing us to to still do all of that code that we had here, but do it all in one call
here because we moved it into the employee class.
OK?
So what that's going to do, just as a quick reminder, is that's going to take that string and use
the rejects stuff to parse it, to get the last name, first name and date of birth and set them on
the instance.
OK, so that'll happen for us now.
Nice and easy in the employee class, and therefore we won't have to do it down here in the programmer
class also.
All right.
Now we've got a red mark here that's referring to the people matcher.
Let's see what we can do about that.
So this people matcher got pulled into the employee class.
Let's find it.
OK, so it's right here.
Here's the people matcher now, currently we're creating it inside of the constructor so that we can
use it down here in the block.
Now we only create an instance of it one time per employee.
And so really, this is really just kind of uncovering what I would say is probably a bit of a design
flaw here.
All right.
So to resolve the problem that we see in the programmer, all we need to do is to pull this.
People match up as a field instead of as a local variable, so we can just right click on the people
match or refactor.
And then introduce field.
Like so and then I'm just going to hit return.
There we go.
So we're initializing it in the constructor, which is fine.
In fact, we have to because that's the only time when we will have access to this person text, which
is what goes in here.
All right.
So we're initializing it in the constructor, but we're declaring it as a field now.
OK?
And by doing so, subclasses now will be able to access this people match or object as well.
All right.
Now there's one other thing that will have to do we we pulled this up into a field so that the subclasses
would be able to make use of it as well, but they won't be able to do that while it's private.
It actually needs to be protected like so.
All right.
So now if we jump back over to the programmer class, there we go.
So now that people matter is no longer in error.
All right.
So we're now accessing this from the super class itself.
Let's see.
We've got one too many curly braces now because I had one left over, which is why we have a little
error here on one curly brace.
I'm going to leave that one because that one lines up with the constructor.
So this is the one that should not exist.
So I'm going to just delete that line.
And then all of this is now indented too far to the right because it was inside of a and if block.
So now I'm just going to bring it over by one by doing a shift tab to just unintended.
And that's looking pretty decent now.
Now let's see if there's anything else that might make sense to pull up.
Let's see.
We've got this programmer pattern, so there should be specific to the programmer and not generic for
employees, but let's see.
So the programmer pattern is created from the programmer rejects, and that is very specific.
So I think I'm comfortable to leave these two here so far.
Now this money format, however, I have a feeling that guy is not specific to a programmer.
I think we can pull this guy up and we won't break anything at all.
So I'm going to put my cursor there.
Right click Refactor.
Paul members up.
Money format is checked.
Click Refactor.
Look at that.
I don't think we broke anything at all.
And while we're at it, I think the two string method is not specific either to the programmer.
I think we have the exact same implementation of two string on all of the subclasses, so this is a
great candidate to pull up as well.
So I can right click on the two string method, choose refactor pull members up and it's already selected
and then click Refactor.
There we go.
And so that just disappeared and it is now.
Over here on the employee class.
And we haven't broken anything.
Now, jump back over to the programmer class and now the programmer class.
Pretty much fits inside of one screen view here.
Now I've got a few imports that are no longer being used, and that's why they're in gray like this
and I can do something called cleaning up the imports, where the IED will simply look for unused imports
and then just get rid of them.
To do that, I can simply do a command option.
Oh, and here it's called optimize imports.
OK, so now it just deleted the unused imports.
OK.
And it's nice to do that from time to time, just to kind of do a little housekeeping.
All right.
So I think this is a pretty good refactoring for programmer.
So in the next lesson, we will apply these same refactoring to the other remaining three classes and
then we'll run it all and make sure that it's all still working.
All right.
And so I'll see in the next one.